Falasia - The Time of Conquest

By Scrowe
Simon_crowe@excite.com

Size: Large
Players: 8

Background:
Decades ago Falasia was gripped by war. The Knights of Morn, in what they call the Insurrection, along with their allies Wizards of the Peaks, freed themselves from their oppressors while fending off hordes of Demons. 

There followed a short period of prosperity as the Knights and Wizards attempted to banish evil from the lands. The Demons were imprissoned underground, and all evil was banished to the prison colony of Galg. 

Meanwhile the northenlands were colonised and prospered, although the south lands were largely left untouched.

However then came a terrible time. Due to a failed ritual on the part of the Wizards, the lands were ripped apart and the sea levels rose. Huge areas of land were lost, many cities destroyed and thousands of people killed.

Now is the aftermath of that event. Eight factions have arisen from the devestation, all at each others throats. Choose your race carefully!


Notes:
An eight player map but with a plot for each player. Some even get a number of events throughout the game (the Knights and Druids).

The races are not entirely equal and balanced. Some start with two castles, some with one. I have attempted to make sure everyone has a chance of winning, although some have more chance than others. The Stronghold for example is probably the weakest at the start and should be considered a race to test the experienced HOMM3 player.


Updates:
Falasia has been updated, correcting various problems such as spelling mistakes and balancing up some of the races by providing a few more resources, also correcting Pandora's Box (before the update it was guarded by... 6 elementals (scary!) now it is many more).The underground has just undergone a huge (cosmetic) change so it looks quite nice now.
If you notice something that requires changing please email simon_crowe@excite.com as I am constantly working to improve my maps


