
Map Size:               Medium

# of Players:           2 (Team Play)

Level of difficulty:    Expert





                        The Story

Well, there was this really big forest once. Really big; like
titan big, like colossal big or humongous big.  The big that 
you think of when you see something very big...  Yea.

Ok, so theres this very big forest and in it lives a bunch
of green eyed, green adorned, green haired, green everything 
wearing bunch of druids.  They were happy druids.  These druids,
you see, were in love with the trees that surrounded them.

They didn't make babies with the trees or anything like that
though they loved the trees almost enough to try..

But anyways, I keep straying you see, anyway;...
There were these northern type men that lived in the very 
cold, very wintry north.  Snows all the time.  They love
the snow.  Not as much as the druids love the trees but
almost as much... ...anyway as I was saying.  They loved the
snow, but the problem with that was that too much snow 
inevitably killed off all the trees up there.  That's kind of 
a problem you see, cause they have to stay warm and if
the trees are wet or frozen they don't burn too good.  Yea.

To make a long story short, the northerners started migrating
south into the big big forest that housed the druids.
Well, of course, the druids got angry.  After all, if someone
started chopping your home down with axes you'd be a little
horrified too.  Not to mention upset..

So anyways they started killing each other over the trees.
Crazy folk you say?  Well, just think about it next time you
walk past someone chaining themself to their tree.  Yea.

So that's the story.  

Oh, one other thing.  The druids moved all their cool stuff
into the heart of their forest for safekeeping.  No telling
what those hairy northerners would do if they got their paws
on all that good stuff.

The End.

send me feedback at:  illegra@codenet.net
Thanks guys.

Praetoriaj